1. Copyright Notice

Some or all of this work - Copyright (c) 1999 - 2017, Intel Corp.
All rights reserved.

2. License

2.1. This is your license from Intel Corp. under its intellectual property
rights. You may have additional license terms from the party that provided
you this software, covering your right to use that party's intellectual
property rights.

2.2. Intel grants, free of charge, to any person ("Licensee") obtaining a
copy of the source code appearing in this file ("Covered Code") an
irrevocable, perpetual, worldwide license under Intel's copyrights in the
base code distributed originally by Intel ("Original Intel Code") to copy,
make derivatives, distribute, use and display any portion of the Covered
Code in any form, with the right to sublicense such rights; and

2.3. Intel grants Licensee a non-exclusive and non-transferable patent
license (with the right to sublicense), under only those claims of Intel
patents that are infringed by the Original Intel Code, to make, use, sell,
offer to sell, and import the Covered Code and derivative works thereof
solely to the minimum extent necessary to exercise the above copyright
license, and in no event shall the patent license extend to any additions
to or modifications of the Original Intel Code. No other license or right
is granted directly or by implication, estoppel or otherwise;

The above copyright and patent license is granted only if the following
conditions are met:

3. Conditions

3.1. Redistribution of Source with Rights to Further Distribute Source.
Redistribution of source code of any substantial portion of the Covered
Code or modification with rights to further distribute source must include
the above Copyright Notice, the above License, this list of Conditions,
and the following Disclaimer and Export Compliance provision. In addition,
Licensee must cause all Covered Code to which Licensee contributes to
contain a file documenting the changes Licensee made to create that Covered
Code and the date of any change. Licensee must include in that file the
documentation of any changes made by any predecessor Licensee. Licensee
must include a prominent statement that the modification is derived,
directly or indirectly, from Original Intel Code.

3.2. Redistribution of Source with no Rights to Further Distribute Source.
Redistribution of source code of any substantial portion of the Covered
Code or modification without rights to further distribute source must
include the following Disclaimer and Export Compliance provision in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with distribution. In
addition, Licensee may not authorize further sublicense of source of any
portion of the Covered Code, and must include terms to the effect that the
license from Licensee to its licensee is limited to the intellectual
property embodied in the software Licensee provides to its licensee, and
not to intellectual property embodied in modifications its licensee may
make.

3.3. Redistribution of Executable. Redistribution in executable form of any
substantial portion of the Covered Code or modification must reproduce the
above Copyright Notice, and the following Disclaimer and Export Compliance
provision in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

3.4. Intel retains all right, title, and interest in and to the Original
Intel Code.

3.5. Neither the name Intel nor any other trademark owned or controlled by
Intel shall be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
other dealings in products derived from or relating to the Covered Code
without prior written authorization from Intel.

4. Disclaimer and Export Compliance

4.1. INTEL MAKES NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND REGARDING ANY SOFTWARE PROVIDED
HERE. ANY SOFTWARE ORIGINATING FROM INTEL OR DERIVED FROM INTEL SOFTWARE
IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND INTEL WILL NOT PROVIDE ANY SUPPORT, ASSISTANCE,
INSTALLATION, TRAINING OR OTHER SERVICES. INTEL WILL NOT PROVIDE ANY
UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS OR EXTENSIONS. INTEL SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

4.2. IN NO EVENT SHALL INTEL HAVE ANY LIABILITY TO LICENSEE, ITS LICENSEES
OR ANY OTHER THIRD PARTY, FOR ANY LOST PROFITS, LOST DATA, LOSS OF USE OR
COSTS OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, OR FOR ANY INDIRECT,
SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, UNDER ANY
CAUSE OF ACTION OR THEORY OF LIABILITY, AND IRRESPECTIVE OF WHETHER INTEL
HAS ADVANCE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THESE LIMITATIONS
SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF THE ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY
LIMITED REMEDY.

4.3. Licensee shall not export, either directly or indirectly, any of this
software or system incorporating such software without first obtaining any
required license or other approval from the U. S. Department of Commerce or
any other agency or department of the United States Government. In the
event Licensee exports any such software from the United States or
re-exports any such software from a foreign destination, Licensee shall
ensure that the distribution and export/re-export of the software is in
compliance with all laws, regulations, orders, or other restrictions of the
U.S. Export Administration Regulations. Licensee agrees that neither it nor
any of its subsidiaries will export/re-export any technical data, process,
software, or service, directly or indirectly, to any country for which the
United States government or any agency thereof requires an export license,
other governmental approval, or letter of assurance, without first obtaining
such license, approval or letter.
