Disclaimer
The National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) is operated for the U.S.
Department of Energy by the Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC ("Alliance").
As such the following rules apply:

Copyright Status
NREL-authored documents are sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy under
Contract DE-AC36-08GO28308. Accordingly, with respect to such documents, the
U.S. Government and others acting on its behalf retain a paid-up nonexclusive,
irrevocable world-wide license to reproduce, prepare derivative works,
distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, by
or on behalf of the Government. Use of documents available from or referenced
by this server may be subject to U.S. and foreign Copyright Laws.

Disclaimer of Endorsement
Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or service by
trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily
constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United
States Government or Alliance. The views and opinions of authors expressed in
the available or referenced documents do not necessarily state or reflect those
of the United States Government or Alliance.

Disclaimer of Liability
WITH RESPECT TO INFORMATION FROM THIS SERVER, NEITHER THE UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT NOR ALLIANCE, NOR ANY OF THEIR EMPLOYEES, MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR ASSUMES ANY LEGAL LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, OR USEFULNESS OF ANY SUCH INFORMATION, OR OF ANY
APPARATUS, PRODUCT, OR PROCESS DISCLOSED, OR REPRESENTS THAT ITS USE WOULD NOT
INFRINGE PRIVATELY OWNED RIGHTS.

Data and Software
Access to or use of any data or software made available on this server ("Data")
shall impose the following obligations on the user, and use of the Data
constitutes user's agreement to these terms. The user is granted the right,
without any fee or cost, to use or copy the Data, provided that this entire
notice appears in all copies of the Data. Further, the user agrees to credit the
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)/NREL/ALLIANCE in any publication that results
from the use of the Data. The names DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE, however, may not be used
in any advertising or publicity to endorse or promote any products or commercial
entities unless specific written permission is obtained from DOE/NREL/ ALLIANCE.
The user also understands that DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE are not obligated to provide
the user with any support, consulting, training or assistance of any kind with
regard to the use of the Data or to provide the user with any updates, revisions
or new versions thereof. DOE, NREL, and ALLIANCE do not guarantee or endorse any
results generated by use of the Data, and user is entirely responsible for the
results and any reliance on the results or the Data in general.

USER AGREES TO INDEMNIFY DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES, AFFILIATES,
OFFICERS, AGENTS, AND EMPLOYEES AGAINST ANY CLAIM OR DEMAND, INCLUDING
REASONABLE ATTORNEYS' FEES, RELATED TO USERâ€™S USE OF THE DATA. THE DATA ARE
PROVIDED BY DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE "AS IS," AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL
DOE/NREL/ALLIANCE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO CLAIMS ASSOCIATED WITH
THE LOSS OF DATA OR PROFITS, THAT MAY RESULT FROM AN ACTION IN CONTRACT,
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS CLAIM THAT ARISES OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
ACCESS, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA.