HTK END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT

1. Definitions

Licensed Software:  All source code, object or executable code,
associated technical documentation and any
data files in this HTK distribution.

Licensor         :  University of Cambridge

Licensee         :  The person/organisation who downloads the HTK
distribution or any part of it.


2. License Rights and Obligations

2.1 The Licensor hereby grants the Licensee a non-exclusive license to a)
make copies of the Licensed Software in source and object code form for use
within the Licensee's organisation; b) modify copies of the Licensed Software
to create derivative works thereof for use within the Licensee's
organisation.

2.2 The Licensed Software either in whole or in part can not be distributed
or sub-licensed to any third party in any form.

2.3 The Licensee agrees not to remove any copyright, trademark or patent
notices that appear in the Licensed Software.

2.4 THE LICENSED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY AND ALL EXPRESS AND IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THOSE OF
MERCHANTABILITY, OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OF ACCURACY OR
COMPLETENESS OF RESPONSES, OF RESULTS, OF REASONABLE CARE OR WORKMANLIKE
EFFORT, OF LACK OF NEGLIGENCE, AND/OR OF A LACK OF VIRUSES, ALL WITH REGARD
TO THE LICENSED SOFTWARE, ARE EXPRESSLY EXCLUDED.  NEITHER LICENSOR, ENTROPIC
OR MICROSOFT MAKE ANY WARRANTY THAT THE LICENSED SOFTWARE WILL OPERATE
PROPERLY AS INTEGRATED IN YOUR PRODUCT(S) OR ON ANY CUSTOMER SYSTEM(S).

2.5 THE LICENSEE AGREES THAT NEITHER LICENSOR, ENTROPIC OR MICROSOFT SHALL BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, ECONOMIC OR PUNITIVE
DAMAGES WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS
OR PERSONAL PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS OR PERSONAL OR
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION, OR ANY OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF
PRIVACY, OR FOR FAILURE TO MEET ANY DUTY, INCLUDING ANY DUTY OF GOOD FAITH,
OR TO EXERCISE COMMERCIALLY REASONABLE CARE OR FOR NEGLIGENCE) ARISING OUT OF
OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE LICENSED
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ENTROPIC HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.


3. Term of Agreement

This agreement is effective upon the download of the Licensed Software and
shall remain in effect until terminated. Termination by the Licensee should
be accompanied by the complete destruction of the Licensed Software and any
complete or partial copies thereof. The Licensor may only terminate this
agreement if the Licensee has failed to abide by the terms of this agreement
in which case termination may be without notice. All provisions of this
agreement relating to disclaimers of warranties, limitation of liability,
remedies or damage and the Licensor's proprietary rights shall survive
termination.


4. Governing Law

This agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws
of England.


5. Though not a license condition, Licensees are strongly encouraged to
a) report all bugs, where possible with bug fixes, that are found.
b) reference the use of HTK in any publications that use the Licensed
Software.


6. Contributions to HTK

We strongly encourage contributions to the HTK source code base. These will
in general be additional tools or library modules which will not fall under
his HTK License Agreement.
