Documentation/cmdref/cilium-operator-alibabacloud_hive_dot-graph.md, before:

<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-operator --cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive dot-graph

Output the dependencies graph in graphviz dot format

```
cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive dot-graph [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for dot-graph
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --enable-cilium-operator-server-access strings         List of cilium operator APIs which are administratively enabled. Supports '*'. (default [*])
      --enable-k8s                                           Enable the k8s clientset (default true)
      --enable-k8s-api-discovery                             Enable discovery of Kubernetes API groups and resources with the discovery API
      --gops-port uint16                                     Port for gops server to listen on (default 9891)
      --identity-gc-interval duration                        GC interval for security identities (default 15m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-interval duration                   Interval used for rate limiting the GC of security identities (default 1m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-limit int                           Maximum number of security identities that will be deleted within the identity-gc-rate-interval (default 2500)
      --identity-heartbeat-timeout duration                  Timeout after which identity expires on lack of heartbeat (default 30m0s)
      --k8s-api-server string                                Kubernetes API server URL
      --k8s-client-burst int                                 Burst value allowed for the K8s client
      --k8s-client-qps float32                               Queries per second limit for the K8s client
      --k8s-heartbeat-timeout duration                       Configures the timeout for api-server heartbeat, set to 0 to disable (default 30s)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string                           Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --mesh-auth-mtls-enabled                               The flag to enable mTLS for the SPIRE server.
      --mesh-auth-spiffe-trust-domain string                 The trust domain for the SPIFFE identity. (default "spiffe.cilium")
      --mesh-auth-spire-agent-socket string                  The path for the SPIRE admin agent Unix socket. (default "/run/spire/sockets/agent/agent.sock")
      --mesh-auth-spire-server-address string                SPIRE server endpoint. (default "spire-server.spire.svc.cluster.local:8081")
      --mesh-auth-spire-server-connection-timeout duration   SPIRE server endpoint. (default 10s)
      --operator-api-serve-addr string                       Address to serve API requests (default "localhost:9234")
      --operator-pprof                                       Enable serving pprof debugging API
      --operator-pprof-address string                        Address that pprof listens on (default "localhost")
      --operator-pprof-port uint16                           Port that pprof listens on (default 6061)
      --skip-crd-creation                                    When true, Kubernetes Custom Resource Definitions will not be created
```

### SEE ALSO

* [cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive](cilium-operator-alibabacloud_hive.md)	 - Inspect the hive

Commit message:

Add a secret sync operator for networkpolicy
This adds a secret sync to the Cilium operator that watches network
policies that have L7 TLS secrets mentioned and copies them into a
defined namespace for later injection into Envoy via SDS

Signed-off-by: Maartje Eyskens <maartje.eyskens@isovalent.com>

Documentation/cmdref/cilium-operator-alibabacloud_hive_dot-graph.md, after:

<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-operator --cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive dot-graph

Output the dependencies graph in graphviz dot format

```
cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive dot-graph [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for dot-graph
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --enable-cilium-operator-server-access strings         List of cilium operator APIs which are administratively enabled. Supports '*'. (default [*])
      --enable-k8s                                           Enable the k8s clientset (default true)
      --enable-k8s-api-discovery                             Enable discovery of Kubernetes API groups and resources with the discovery API
      --enable-policy-secrets-sync                           Enable policy secret sync watcher
      --gops-port uint16                                     Port for gops server to listen on (default 9891)
      --identity-gc-interval duration                        GC interval for security identities (default 15m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-interval duration                   Interval used for rate limiting the GC of security identities (default 1m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-limit int                           Maximum number of security identities that will be deleted within the identity-gc-rate-interval (default 2500)
      --identity-heartbeat-timeout duration                  Timeout after which identity expires on lack of heartbeat (default 30m0s)
      --k8s-api-server string                                Kubernetes API server URL
      --k8s-client-burst int                                 Burst value allowed for the K8s client
      --k8s-client-qps float32                               Queries per second limit for the K8s client
      --k8s-heartbeat-timeout duration                       Configures the timeout for api-server heartbeat, set to 0 to disable (default 30s)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string                           Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --mesh-auth-mtls-enabled                               The flag to enable mTLS for the SPIRE server.
      --mesh-auth-spiffe-trust-domain string                 The trust domain for the SPIFFE identity. (default "spiffe.cilium")
      --mesh-auth-spire-agent-socket string                  The path for the SPIRE admin agent Unix socket. (default "/run/spire/sockets/agent/agent.sock")
      --mesh-auth-spire-server-address string                SPIRE server endpoint. (default "spire-server.spire.svc.cluster.local:8081")
      --mesh-auth-spire-server-connection-timeout duration   SPIRE server endpoint. (default 10s)
      --operator-api-serve-addr string                       Address to serve API requests (default "localhost:9234")
      --operator-pprof                                       Enable serving pprof debugging API
      --operator-pprof-address string                        Address that pprof listens on (default "localhost")
      --operator-pprof-port uint16                           Port that pprof listens on (default 6061)
      --policy-controller-max-retries int                    Maximum number of retries for a policy update in the controller (default 10)
      --policy-secrets-namespace string                      Namespace where TLS secrets are stored which are used in CNP rules (default "cilium-secrets")
      --skip-crd-creation                                    When true, Kubernetes Custom Resource Definitions will not be created
```

### SEE ALSO

* [cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive](cilium-operator-alibabacloud_hive.md)	 - Inspect the hive
