<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-operator-aws cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-operator-aws

Run cilium-operator-aws

```
cilium-operator-aws [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --auto-create-cilium-pod-ip-pools map                  Automatically create CiliumPodIPPool resources on startup. Specify pools in the form of <pool>=ipv4-cidrs:<cidr>,[<cidr>...];ipv4-mask-size:<size> (multiple pools can also be passed by repeating the CLI flag)
      --aws-enable-prefix-delegation                         Allows operator to allocate prefixes to ENIs instead of individual IP addresses
      --aws-max-results-per-call int32                       Maximum results per AWS API call for DescribeNetworkInterfaces and DescribeSecurityGroups. Set to 0 to let AWS determine optimal page size (default). If set to 0 and AWS returns OperationNotPermitted errors, automatically switches to 1000 for all future requests
      --aws-release-excess-ips                               Enable releasing excess free IP addresses from AWS ENI.
      --aws-use-primary-address                              Allows for using primary address of the ENI for allocations on the node
      --ces-max-ciliumendpoints-per-ces int                  Maximum number of CiliumEndpoints allowed in a CES (default 100)
      --ces-rate-limits string                               Configure rate limits for the CES controller. Accepts a list of rate limit configurations, must be a JSON formatted string. (default "[{\"nodes\":0,\"limit\":10,\"burst\":20}]")
      --cilium-endpoint-gc-interval duration                 GC interval for cilium endpoints (default 5m0s)
      --cilium-pod-labels string                             Cilium Pod's labels. Used to detect if a Cilium pod is running to remove the node taints where its running and set NetworkUnavailable to false (default "k8s-app=cilium")
      --cilium-pod-namespace string                          Name of the Kubernetes namespace in which Cilium is deployed in. Defaults to the same namespace defined in k8s-namespace
      --cluster-id uint32                                    Unique identifier of the cluster
      --cluster-name string                                  Name of the cluster. It must consist of at most 32 lower case alphanumeric characters and '-', start and end with an alphanumeric character. (default "default")
      --cluster-pool-ipv4-cidr strings                       IPv4 CIDR Range for Pods in cluster. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv4=true'
      --cluster-pool-ipv4-mask-size int                      Mask size for each IPv4 podCIDR per node. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv4=true' (default 24)
      --cluster-pool-ipv6-cidr strings                       IPv6 CIDR Range for Pods in cluster. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv6=true'
      --cluster-pool-ipv6-mask-size int                      Mask size for each IPv6 podCIDR per node. Requires 'ipam=cluster-pool' and 'enable-ipv6=true' (default 112)
      --clustermesh-cache-ttl duration                       The time to live for the cache of a remote cluster after connectivity is lost. If the connection is not re-established within this duration, the cached data is revoked to prevent stale state. If not specified or set to 0s, the cache is never revoked.
      --clustermesh-concurrent-service-endpoint-syncs int    The number of remote cluster service syncing operations that will be done concurrently. Larger number = faster endpoint slice updating, but more CPU (and network) load. (default 5)
      --clustermesh-config string                            Path to the ClusterMesh configuration directory
      --clustermesh-enable-endpoint-sync                     Whether or not the endpoint slice cluster mesh synchronization is enabled.
      --clustermesh-enable-mcs-api                           Enable Cluster Mesh MCS-API support
      --clustermesh-endpoint-updates-batch-period duration   The length of endpoint slice updates batching period for remote cluster services. Processing of pod changes will be delayed by this duration to join them with potential upcoming updates and reduce the overall number of endpoints updates. Larger number = higher endpoint programming latency, but lower number of endpoints revision generated. (default 500ms)
      --clustermesh-endpoints-per-slice int                  The maximum number of endpoints that will be added to a remote cluster's EndpointSlice . More endpoints per slice will result in less endpoint slices, but larger resources. (default 100)
      --clustermesh-mcs-api-install-crds                     Install and manage the MCS API CRDs. Only applicable if MCS API support is enabled. (default true)
      --clustermesh-sync-timeout duration                    Timeout waiting for the initial synchronization of information from remote clusters (default 1m0s)
      --config string                                        Configuration file (default "$HOME/ciliumd.yaml")
      --config-dir string                                    Configuration directory that contains a file for each option
      --controller-group-metrics strings                     List of controller group names for which to to enable metrics. Accepts 'all' and 'none'. The set of controller group names available is not guaranteed to be stable between Cilium versions.
  -D, --debug                                                Enable debugging mode
      --default-lb-service-ipam string                       Indicates the default LoadBalancer Service IPAM when no LoadBalancer class is set.Applicable values: lbipam, nodeipam, none (default "lbipam")
      --double-write-metric-reporter-interval duration       Refresh interval for the Double Write Metric Reporter (default 1m0s)
      --ec2-api-endpoint string                              AWS API endpoint for the EC2 service
      --enable-cilium-endpoint-slice                         If set to true, the CiliumEndpointSlice feature is enabled. If any CiliumEndpoints resources are created, updated, or deleted in the cluster, all those changes are broadcast as CiliumEndpointSlice updates to all of the Cilium agents.
      --enable-cilium-operator-server-access strings         List of cilium operator APIs which are administratively enabled. Supports '*'. (default [*])
      --enable-gateway-api-alpn                              Enables exposing ALPN with HTTP2 and HTTP/1.1 support for Gateway API
      --enable-gateway-api-app-protocol                      Enables Backend Protocol selection (GEP-1911) for Gateway API via appProtocol
      --enable-gateway-api-proxy-protocol                    Enable proxy protocol for all GatewayAPI listeners. Note that _only_ Proxy protocol traffic will be accepted once this is enabled.
      --enable-gateway-api-secrets-sync                      Enables fan-in TLS secrets sync from multiple namespaces to singular namespace (specified by gateway-api-secrets-namespace flag) (default true)
      --enable-gops                                          Enable gops server (default true)
      --enable-ingress-controller                            Enables cilium ingress controller. This must be enabled along with enable-envoy-config in cilium agent.
      --enable-ingress-proxy-protocol                        Enable proxy protocol for all Ingress listeners. Note that _only_ Proxy protocol traffic will be accepted once this is enabled.
      --enable-ingress-secrets-sync                          Enables fan-in TLS secrets from multiple namespaces to singular namespace (specified by ingress-secrets-namespace flag) (default true)
      --enable-ipv4                                          Enable IPv4 support (default true)
      --enable-ipv6                                          Enable IPv6 support (default true)
      --enable-k8s                                           Enable the k8s clientset (default true)
      --enable-k8s-api-discovery                             Enable discovery of Kubernetes API groups and resources with the discovery API
      --enable-l7-proxy                                      Enable L7 proxy for L7 policy enforcement (default true)
      --enable-lb-ipam                                       Enable LB IPAM (default true)
      --enable-metrics                                       Enable Prometheus metrics
      --enable-node-ipam                                     Enable Node IPAM
      --enable-node-selector-labels                          Enable use of node label based identity
      --enable-policy string                                 Enable policy enforcement (default "default")
      --enable-policy-secrets-sync                           Enables fan-in TLS secrets sync from multiple namespaces to singular namespace (specified by policy-secrets-namespace flag)
      --enable-ztunnel                                       Use zTunnel as Cilium's encryption infrastructure
      --enforce-ingress-https                                Enforces https for host having matching TLS host in Ingress. Incoming traffic to http listener will return 308 http error code with respective location in header. (default true)
      --eni-gc-interval duration                             Interval for garbage collection of unattached ENIs. Set to 0 to disable (default 5m0s)
      --eni-gc-tags map                                      Additional tags attached to ENIs created by Cilium. Dangling ENIs with this tag will be garbage collected
      --eni-tags map                                         ENI tags in the form of k1=v1 (multiple k/v pairs can be passed by repeating the CLI flag)
      --excess-ip-release-delay int                          Number of seconds operator would wait before it releases an IP previously marked as excess (default 180)
      --gateway-api-hostnetwork-enabled                      Exposes Gateway listeners on the host network.
      --gateway-api-hostnetwork-nodelabelselector string     Label selector that matches the nodes where the gateway listeners should be exposed. It's a list of comma-separated key-value label pairs. e.g. 'kubernetes.io/os=linux,kubernetes.io/hostname=kind-worker'
      --gateway-api-secrets-namespace string                 Namespace having tls secrets used by CEC for Gateway API (default "cilium-secrets")
      --gateway-api-service-externaltrafficpolicy string     Kubernetes LoadBalancer Service externalTrafficPolicy for all Gateway instances. (default "Cluster")
      --gateway-api-use-remote-address                       Use the remote address as the client IP address when determining the origin client's IP address.
      --gateway-api-xff-num-trusted-hops uint32              The number of additional GatewayAPI proxy hops from the right side of the HTTP header to trust when determining the origin client's IP address.
      --gops-port uint16                                     Port for gops server to listen on (default 9891)
  -h, --help                                                 help for cilium-operator-aws
      --identity-allocation-mode string                      Method to use for identity allocation (default "kvstore")
      --identity-gc-interval duration                        GC interval for security identities (default 15m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-interval duration                   Interval used for rate limiting the GC of security identities (default 1m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-limit int                           Maximum number of security identities that will be deleted within the identity-gc-rate-interval (default 2500)
      --identity-heartbeat-timeout duration                  Timeout after which identity expires on lack of heartbeat (default 30m0s)
      --identity-management-mode string                      Configure whether Cilium Identities are managed by cilium-agent, cilium-operator, or both (default "agent")
      --ingress-default-lb-mode string                       Default loadbalancer mode for Ingress. Applicable values: dedicated, shared (default "dedicated")
      --ingress-default-request-timeout duration             Default request timeout for Ingress.
      --ingress-default-secret-name string                   Default secret name for Ingress.
      --ingress-default-secret-namespace string              Default secret namespace for Ingress.
      --ingress-default-xff-num-trusted-hops uint32          The number of additional ingress proxy hops from the right side of the HTTP header to trust when determining the origin client's IP address.
      --ingress-hostnetwork-enabled                          Exposes ingress listeners on the host network.
      --ingress-hostnetwork-nodelabelselector string         Label selector that matches the nodes where the ingress listeners should be exposed. It's a list of comma-separated key-value label pairs. e.g. 'kubernetes.io/os=linux,kubernetes.io/hostname=kind-worker'
      --ingress-hostnetwork-shared-listener-port uint32      Port on the host network that gets used for the shared listener (HTTP, HTTPS & TLS passthrough)
      --ingress-lb-annotation-prefixes strings               Annotations and labels which are needed to propagate from Ingress to the Load Balancer. (default [lbipam.cilium.io,service.beta.kubernetes.io,service.kubernetes.io,cloud.google.com])
      --ingress-secrets-namespace string                     Namespace having tls secrets used by Ingress and CEC. (default "cilium-secrets")
      --ingress-shared-lb-service-name string                Name of shared LB service name for Ingress. (default "cilium-ingress")
      --ingress-use-remote-address                           Use the immediate client's IP address as the origin client's IP address.
      --instance-tags-filter map                             EC2 Instance tags in the form of k1=v1,k2=v2 (multiple k/v pairs can also be passed by repeating the CLI flag
      --ipam string                                          Backend to use for IPAM (default "eni")
      --k8s-api-server-urls strings                          Kubernetes API server URLs
      --k8s-client-connection-keep-alive duration            Configures the keep alive duration of K8s client connections. K8 client is disabled if the value is set to 0 (default 30s)
      --k8s-client-connection-timeout duration               Configures the timeout of K8s client connections. K8s client is disabled if the value is set to 0 (default 30s)
      --k8s-heartbeat-timeout duration                       Configures the timeout for api-server heartbeat, set to 0 to disable (default 30s)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string                           Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --k8s-namespace string                                 Name of the Kubernetes namespace in which Cilium Operator is deployed in
      --k8s-service-proxy-name string                        Value of K8s service-proxy-name label for which Cilium handles the services (empty = all services without service.kubernetes.io/service-proxy-name label)
      --kvstore string                                       Key-value store type
      --kvstore-lease-ttl duration                           Time-to-live for the KVstore lease. (default 15m0s)
      --kvstore-max-consecutive-quorum-errors uint           Max acceptable kvstore consecutive quorum errors before recreating the etcd connection (default 2)
      --kvstore-opt stringToString                           Key-value store options e.g. etcd.address=127.0.0.1:4001 (default [])
      --leader-election-lease-duration duration              Duration that non-leader operator candidates will wait before forcing to acquire leadership (default 15s)
      --leader-election-renew-deadline duration              Duration that current acting master will retry refreshing leadership in before giving up the lock (default 10s)
      --leader-election-retry-period duration                Duration that LeaderElector clients should wait between retries of the actions (default 2s)
      --limit-ipam-api-burst int                             Upper burst limit when accessing external APIs (default 20)
      --limit-ipam-api-qps float                             Queries per second limit when accessing external IPAM APIs (default 4)
      --loadbalancer-l7 string                               Enable L7 loadbalancer capabilities for services via L7 proxy. Applicable values: envoy
      --loadbalancer-l7-algorithm string                     Default LB algorithm for services that do not specify related annotation (default "round_robin")
      --loadbalancer-l7-ports strings                        List of service ports that will be automatically redirected to backend.
      --log-driver strings                                   Logging endpoints to use for example syslog
      --log-opt map                                          Log driver options for cilium-operator, configmap example for syslog driver: {"syslog.level":"info","syslog.facility":"local4"}
      --max-connected-clusters uint32                        Maximum number of clusters to be connected in a clustermesh. Increasing this value will reduce the maximum number of identities available. Valid configurations are [255, 511]. (default 255)
      --mesh-auth-mutual-enabled                             The flag to enable mutual authentication for the SPIRE server (beta).
      --mesh-auth-spiffe-trust-domain string                 The trust domain for the SPIFFE identity. (default "spiffe.cilium")
      --mesh-auth-spire-agent-socket string                  The path for the SPIRE admin agent Unix socket. (default "/run/spire/sockets/agent/agent.sock")
      --mesh-auth-spire-server-address string                SPIRE server endpoint. (default "spire-server.spire.svc:8081")
      --mesh-auth-spire-server-connection-timeout duration   SPIRE server connection timeout. (default 10s)
      --metrics-sampling-interval duration                   Set the internal metrics sampling interval (default 5m0s)
      --nodes-gc-interval duration                           GC interval for CiliumNodes (default 5m0s)
      --operator-api-serve-addr string                       Address to serve API requests (default "localhost:9234")
      --operator-k8s-client-burst int                        Burst value allowed for the K8s client (default 200)
      --operator-k8s-client-qps float32                      Queries per second limit for the K8s client (default 100)
      --operator-pprof                                       Enable serving pprof debugging API
      --operator-pprof-address string                        Address that pprof listens on (default "localhost")
      --operator-pprof-block-profile-rate int                Enable goroutine blocking profiling and set the rate of sampled events in nanoseconds (set to 1 to sample all events [warning: performance overhead])
      --operator-pprof-mutex-profile-fraction int            Enable mutex contention profiling and set the fraction of sampled events (set to 1 to sample all events)
      --operator-pprof-port uint16                           Port that pprof listens on (default 6061)
      --operator-prometheus-enable-tls                       Enable TLS for prometheus server
      --operator-prometheus-serve-addr string                Address to serve Prometheus metrics (default ":9963")
      --operator-prometheus-tls-cert-file string             Path to TLS certificate file for prometheus server. The file must contain PEM encoded data
      --operator-prometheus-tls-client-ca-files strings      Path to one or more TLS client CA certificates files to use for TLS with mutual authentication (mTLS) for prometheus server. The files must contain PEM encoded data. When provided, this option effectively enables mTLS.
      --operator-prometheus-tls-key-file string              Path to TLS private key file for prometheus server. The file must contain PEM encoded data.
      --parallel-alloc-workers int                           Maximum number of parallel IPAM workers (default 50)
      --pod-restart-selector string                          cilium-operator will delete/restart any pods with these labels if the pod is not managed by Cilium. If this option is empty, then all pods may be restarted (default "k8s-app=kube-dns")
      --policy-default-local-cluster                         Control whether policy rules assume by default the local cluster if not explicitly selected (default true)
      --policy-secrets-namespace string                      Namespace where secrets used in TLS Interception will be synced to. (default "cilium-secrets")
      --remove-cilium-node-taints                            Remove node taint "node.cilium.io/agent-not-ready" from Kubernetes nodes once Cilium is up and running (default true)
      --set-cilium-is-up-condition                           Set CiliumIsUp Node condition to mark a Kubernetes Node that a Cilium pod is up and running in that node (default true)
      --set-cilium-node-taints                               Set node taint "node.cilium.io/agent-not-ready" from Kubernetes nodes if Cilium is scheduled but not up and running
      --shell-sock-path string                               Path to the shell UNIX socket (default "/var/run/cilium/shell.sock")
      --skip-crd-creation                                    When true, Kubernetes Custom Resource Definitions will not be created
      --subnet-ids-filter strings                            Subnets IDs (separated by commas)
      --subnet-tags-filter map                               Subnets tags in the form of k1=v1,k2=v2 (multiple k/v pairs can also be passed by repeating the CLI flag
      --synchronize-k8s-nodes                                Perform GC of stale node entries from the KVStore (default true)
      --synchronize-k8s-services                             Synchronize Kubernetes services to kvstore (default true)
      --taint-sync-workers int                               Number of workers used to synchronize node tains and conditions (default 10)
      --unmanaged-pod-watcher-interval duration              Interval to check for unmanaged kube-dns pods (0 to disable) (default 15s)
      --validate-network-policy                              Whether to enable or disable the informational network policy validator (default true)
      --version                                              Print version information
```

### SEE ALSO

* [cilium-operator-aws completion](cilium-operator-aws_completion.md)	 - Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
* [cilium-operator-aws hive](cilium-operator-aws_hive.md)	 - Inspect the hive
* [cilium-operator-aws metrics](cilium-operator-aws_metrics.md)	 - Access metric status of the operator
* [cilium-operator-aws shell](cilium-operator-aws_shell.md)	 - Connect to the shell
* [cilium-operator-aws status](cilium-operator-aws_status.md)	 - Display status of operator
* [cilium-operator-aws troubleshoot](cilium-operator-aws_troubleshoot.md)	 - Run troubleshooting utilities to check control-plane connectivity

