Documentation/cmdref/cilium-operator-alibabacloud_hive.md, before:

<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-operator --cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive

Inspect the hive

```
cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --enable-k8s                                           Enable the k8s clientset (default true)
      --enable-k8s-api-discovery                             Enable discovery of Kubernetes API groups and resources with the discovery API
      --gops-port uint16                                     Port for gops server to listen on (default 9891)
  -h, --help                                                 help for hive
      --identity-gc-interval duration                        GC interval for security identities (default 15m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-interval duration                   Interval used for rate limiting the GC of security identities (default 1m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-limit int                           Maximum number of security identities that will be deleted within the identity-gc-rate-interval (default 2500)
      --identity-heartbeat-timeout duration                  Timeout after which identity expires on lack of heartbeat (default 30m0s)
      --k8s-api-server string                                Kubernetes API server URL
      --k8s-client-burst int                                 Burst value allowed for the K8s client
      --k8s-client-qps float32                               Queries per second limit for the K8s client
      --k8s-heartbeat-timeout duration                       Configures the timeout for api-server heartbeat, set to 0 to disable (default 30s)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string                           Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --mesh-auth-mtls-enabled                               The flag to enable mTLS for the SPIRE server.
      --mesh-auth-spiffe-trust-domain string                 The trust domain for the SPIFFE identity. (default "spiffe.cilium.io")
      --mesh-auth-spire-agent-socket string                  The path for the SPIRE admin agent Unix socket. (default "/run/spire/sockets/agent/agent.sock")
      --mesh-auth-spire-server-address string                SPIRE server endpoint. (default "spire-server.spire.svc.cluster.local:8081")
      --mesh-auth-spire-server-connection-timeout duration   SPIRE server endpoint. (default 10s)
      --operator-api-serve-addr string                       Address to serve API requests (default "localhost:9234")
      --operator-pprof                                       Enable serving pprof debugging API
      --operator-pprof-address string                        Address that pprof listens on (default "localhost")
      --operator-pprof-port uint16                           Port that pprof listens on (default 6061)
      --skip-crd-creation                                    When true, Kubernetes Custom Resource Definitions will not be created
```

### SEE ALSO

* [cilium-operator-alibabacloud](cilium-operator-alibabacloud.md)	 - Run cilium-operator-alibabacloud
* [cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive dot-graph](cilium-operator-alibabacloud_hive_dot-graph.md)	 - Output the dependencies graph in graphviz dot format

Commit message:

metrics: Switched metrics over to using metrics with metadata
This commit turns the existing metrics registry into a cell which uses
the new metrics with metadata. All of the existing metrics which are
defined as global variables are converted and are constructed by
the `NewLegacyMetrics` constructor, which provides all metrics via
dependency injection as well as setting all global metric variables.

The ultimate goal is to have every component define its own metrics
locally to the logic. We still use the global values for now, as not to
make this commit larger than it has to be.

In future iterations we will start by replacing the usage of global
variables with references to `*LegacyMetrics` so all metrics are
dependency injected. After that, we will break up this mega-struct into
separate structures defined locally to the logic which uses them.

Signed-off-by: Dylan Reimerink <dylan.reimerink@isovalent.com>

Documentation/cmdref/cilium-operator-alibabacloud_hive.md, after:

<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-operator --cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive

Inspect the hive

```
cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --enable-k8s                                           Enable the k8s clientset (default true)
      --enable-k8s-api-discovery                             Enable discovery of Kubernetes API groups and resources with the discovery API
      --gops-port uint16                                     Port for gops server to listen on (default 9891)
  -h, --help                                                 help for hive
      --identity-gc-interval duration                        GC interval for security identities (default 15m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-interval duration                   Interval used for rate limiting the GC of security identities (default 1m0s)
      --identity-gc-rate-limit int                           Maximum number of security identities that will be deleted within the identity-gc-rate-interval (default 2500)
      --identity-heartbeat-timeout duration                  Timeout after which identity expires on lack of heartbeat (default 30m0s)
      --k8s-api-server string                                Kubernetes API server URL
      --k8s-client-burst int                                 Burst value allowed for the K8s client
      --k8s-client-qps float32                               Queries per second limit for the K8s client
      --k8s-heartbeat-timeout duration                       Configures the timeout for api-server heartbeat, set to 0 to disable (default 30s)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string                           Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --mesh-auth-mtls-enabled                               The flag to enable mTLS for the SPIRE server.
      --mesh-auth-spiffe-trust-domain string                 The trust domain for the SPIFFE identity. (default "spiffe.cilium.io")
      --mesh-auth-spire-agent-socket string                  The path for the SPIRE admin agent Unix socket. (default "/run/spire/sockets/agent/agent.sock")
      --mesh-auth-spire-server-address string                SPIRE server endpoint. (default "spire-server.spire.svc.cluster.local:8081")
      --mesh-auth-spire-server-connection-timeout duration   SPIRE server endpoint. (default 10s)
      --metrics strings                                      Metrics that should be enabled or disabled from the default metric list. (+metric_foo to enable metric_foo , -metric_bar to disable metric_bar)
      --operator-api-serve-addr string                       Address to serve API requests (default "localhost:9234")
      --operator-pprof                                       Enable serving pprof debugging API
      --operator-pprof-address string                        Address that pprof listens on (default "localhost")
      --operator-pprof-port uint16                           Port that pprof listens on (default 6061)
      --prometheus-serve-addr string                         IP:Port on which to serve prometheus metrics (pass ":Port" to bind on all interfaces, "" is off) (default ":9962")
      --skip-crd-creation                                    When true, Kubernetes Custom Resource Definitions will not be created
```

### SEE ALSO

* [cilium-operator-alibabacloud](cilium-operator-alibabacloud.md)	 - Run cilium-operator-alibabacloud
* [cilium-operator-alibabacloud hive dot-graph](cilium-operator-alibabacloud_hive_dot-graph.md)	 - Output the dependencies graph in graphviz dot format
