Documentation/cmdref/cilium-agent_hive_dot-graph.md, before:

<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-agent --cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-agent hive dot-graph

Output the dependencies graph in graphviz dot format

```
cilium-agent hive dot-graph [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for dot-graph
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --certificates-directory string          Root directory to find certificates specified in L7 TLS policy enforcement (default "/var/run/cilium/certs")
      --cni-chaining-mode string               Enable CNI chaining with the specified plugin (default "none")
      --cni-exclusive                          Whether to remove other CNI configurations
      --cni-log-file string                    Path where the CNI plugin should write logs (default "/var/run/cilium/cilium-cni.log")
      --enable-k8s                             Enable the k8s clientset (default true)
      --enable-k8s-api-discovery               Enable discovery of Kubernetes API groups and resources with the discovery API
      --gops-port uint16                       Port for gops server to listen on (default 9890)
      --install-egress-gateway-routes          Install egress gateway IP rules and routes in order to properly steer egress gateway traffic to the correct ENI interface
      --k8s-api-server string                  Kubernetes API server URL
      --k8s-client-burst int                   Burst value allowed for the K8s client
      --k8s-client-qps float32                 Queries per second limit for the K8s client
      --k8s-heartbeat-timeout duration         Configures the timeout for api-server heartbeat, set to 0 to disable (default 30s)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string             Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --mesh-auth-monitor-queue-size int       Queue size for the auth monitor (default 1024)
      --mesh-auth-mtls-listener-port int       Port on which the Cilium Agent will perfom mTLS handshakes between other Agents
      --mesh-auth-spiffe-trust-domain string   The trust domain for the SPIFFE identity. (default "spiffe.cilium.io")
      --mesh-auth-spire-admin-socket string    The path for the SPIRE admin agent Unix socket.
      --pprof                                  Enable serving pprof debugging API
      --pprof-address string                   Address that pprof listens on (default "localhost")
      --pprof-port uint16                      Port that pprof listens on (default 6060)
      --read-cni-conf string                   CNI configuration file to use as a source for --write-cni-conf-when-ready. If not supplied, a suitable one will be generated.
      --write-cni-conf-when-ready string       Write the CNI configuration to the specified path when agent is ready
```

### SEE ALSO

* [cilium-agent hive](cilium-agent_hive.md)	 - Inspect the hive

Commit message:

metrics: Switched metrics over to using metrics with metadata
This commit turns the existing metrics registry into a cell which uses
the new metrics with metadata. All of the existing metrics which are
defined as global variables are converted and are constructed by
the `NewLegacyMetrics` constructor, which provides all metrics via
dependency injection as well as setting all global metric variables.

The ultimate goal is to have every component define its own metrics
locally to the logic. We still use the global values for now, as not to
make this commit larger than it has to be.

In future iterations we will start by replacing the usage of global
variables with references to `*LegacyMetrics` so all metrics are
dependency injected. After that, we will break up this mega-struct into
separate structures defined locally to the logic which uses them.

Signed-off-by: Dylan Reimerink <dylan.reimerink@isovalent.com>

Documentation/cmdref/cilium-agent_hive_dot-graph.md, after:

<!-- This file was autogenerated via cilium-agent --cmdref, do not edit manually-->

## cilium-agent hive dot-graph

Output the dependencies graph in graphviz dot format

```
cilium-agent hive dot-graph [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for dot-graph
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --certificates-directory string          Root directory to find certificates specified in L7 TLS policy enforcement (default "/var/run/cilium/certs")
      --cni-chaining-mode string               Enable CNI chaining with the specified plugin (default "none")
      --cni-exclusive                          Whether to remove other CNI configurations
      --cni-log-file string                    Path where the CNI plugin should write logs (default "/var/run/cilium/cilium-cni.log")
      --enable-k8s                             Enable the k8s clientset (default true)
      --enable-k8s-api-discovery               Enable discovery of Kubernetes API groups and resources with the discovery API
      --gops-port uint16                       Port for gops server to listen on (default 9890)
      --install-egress-gateway-routes          Install egress gateway IP rules and routes in order to properly steer egress gateway traffic to the correct ENI interface
      --k8s-api-server string                  Kubernetes API server URL
      --k8s-client-burst int                   Burst value allowed for the K8s client
      --k8s-client-qps float32                 Queries per second limit for the K8s client
      --k8s-heartbeat-timeout duration         Configures the timeout for api-server heartbeat, set to 0 to disable (default 30s)
      --k8s-kubeconfig-path string             Absolute path of the kubernetes kubeconfig file
      --mesh-auth-monitor-queue-size int       Queue size for the auth monitor (default 1024)
      --mesh-auth-mtls-listener-port int       Port on which the Cilium Agent will perfom mTLS handshakes between other Agents
      --mesh-auth-spiffe-trust-domain string   The trust domain for the SPIFFE identity. (default "spiffe.cilium.io")
      --mesh-auth-spire-admin-socket string    The path for the SPIRE admin agent Unix socket.
      --metrics strings                        Metrics that should be enabled or disabled from the default metric list. (+metric_foo to enable metric_foo , -metric_bar to disable metric_bar)
      --pprof                                  Enable serving pprof debugging API
      --pprof-address string                   Address that pprof listens on (default "localhost")
      --pprof-port uint16                      Port that pprof listens on (default 6060)
      --prometheus-serve-addr string           IP:Port on which to serve prometheus metrics (pass ":Port" to bind on all interfaces, "" is off) (default ":9962")
      --read-cni-conf string                   CNI configuration file to use as a source for --write-cni-conf-when-ready. If not supplied, a suitable one will be generated.
      --write-cni-conf-when-ready string       Write the CNI configuration to the specified path when agent is ready
```

### SEE ALSO

* [cilium-agent hive](cilium-agent_hive.md)	 - Inspect the hive
