Copyright (c) 2016 The Khronos Group Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software source and associated documentation files (the "Materials"),
to deal in the Materials without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, compile, merge, publish, distribute,
sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Materials, and to permit persons to
whom the Materials are furnished to do so, subject the following terms and
conditions:

All modifications to the Materials used to create a binary that is
distributed to third parties shall be provided to Khronos with an
unrestricted license to use for the purposes of implementing bug fixes and
enhancements to the Materials;

If the binary is used as part of an OpenCL(TM) implementation, whether binary
is distributed together with or separately to that implementation, then
recipient must become an OpenCL Adopter and follow the published OpenCL
conformance process for that implementation, details at:
http://www.khronos.org/conformance/;

The above copyright notice, the OpenCL trademark license, and this permission
notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Materials.

THE MATERIALS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE MATERIALS OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE MATERIALS.

OpenCL is a trademark of Apple Inc. used under license by Khronos.
